BS in Computer and Information Science
Computer and information scientists combine their creativity and deep knowledge of technology to solve practical challenges in all aspects of modern life.

Computer and information technologies are now an indispensable part of how we live and work, and our Bachelor of Science degree in Computer and Information Science will take you inside the field’s most dynamic disciplines.

The Computer Science (CS) concentration strengthens your knowledge of how computer systems work and prepares you for positions in system programming, graphics and visualization, networks and web technology.

Opt for the Information Systems (INSY) concentration and you’ll dig into how information technologies — like databases, enterprise computing, system analysis, and web-based information systems — are applied to commercial, governmental or scientific contexts.

A third concentration in Game Design (GD) is tailor-made for those whose dreams include careers in game programming, user experience design and augmented reality applications.

Good news! Effective in Fall 2023, a new concentration in Artificial Intelligence (AI) will be offered for the BS in Computer and Information Science program.

 

What Will I Learn?
Our graduates will be qualified for employment in Computer and Information Science related fields or other career paths, including industrial, academic, governmental, and non-governmental organizations, or will be successful graduate students in a program preparing them for such employment.
Our graduates will be qualified to lead and participate in culturally diverse and inclusive teams, becoming global and ethical collaborators. 
Our graduates will be qualified to participate in continuing professional development through, for example, obtaining continuing education credits, professional registration or certifications, or post-graduate study credits or degrees.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
Visit the University Catalog to learn more about required coursework for the Computer and Information Science major and minor.
Request Information
Visit Campus
Apply Now
Making the Most of Your Major
There are opportunities to develop skills and connect with others interested in Computer and Information Science beyond the classroom.

Get Involved
Join an organization, such as Society of Women Engineers (SWE) or  Upsilon Pi Epsilon (UPE). Explore UM-Dearborn student organizations on VictorsLink.

Get Real World Experience
Internship, research, and study abroad opportunities are available for computer and information science students. Talk with your professors to learn more.

Plan for Life After Graduation
CIS Professionals work for industry, education, government, and nonprofit organizations locally and worldwide

Career Services offers assistance with job searching, resumes, interviews, or graduate school applications.

Faculty Career Advisor for Students
If you have any questions or need any advice about your career opportunities and development in Computer and Information Science, please contact the Faculty Career Advisors for BS-CIS students: Dr. Shengquan Wang and Dr. Khalid Kattan.

General Program Information
Students complete a minimum of 120 credits in one of three options (computer science or information systems or game design) and receive a Bachelor of Science (BS) degree in Computer and Information Science. 

Bachelor of Science - Major/Minor/Dual Degree 
Internship and Research Opportunities Available
Scholarships Available
Please note that beginning in Fall 2015, all freshmen must follow the Dearborn Discovery Core (DDC) requirements. 

Accreditation
The BS in Computer and Information Science program is accredited by the Computing Accreditation Commission of ABET.


Educational Objectives

Educational Objectives for BS in CIS
Our graduates will be qualified for employment in Computer and Information Science related fields or other career paths, including industrial, academic, governmental, and non-governmental organizations, or will be successful graduate students in a program preparing them for such employment.
Our graduates will be qualified to lead and participate in culturally diverse and inclusive teams, becoming global and ethical collaborators. 
Our graduates will be qualified to participate in continuing professional development through, for example, obtaining continuing education credits, professional registration or certifications, or post-graduate study credits or degrees.



BS in Computer and Information Science
For information on the number of students enrolled and degrees granted in the BS in Computer and Information Science program, please visit the Enrollment Data and Degrees Awarded page.


Graduates of the BS in CIS program will have the ability to:
Analyze a complex computing problem and to apply principles of computing and other relevant disciplines to identify solutions. 
Design, implement, and evaluate a computing-based solution to meet a given set of computing requirements in the context of the program's discipline.
Communicate effectively in a variety of professional contexts.
Recognize professional responsibilities and make informed judgments in computing practice based on legal and ethical principles.
Function effectively as a member or leader of a team engaged in activities appropriate to the program's discipline.
Apply computer science theory and software development fundamentals to produce computing-based solutions. 